How to Increase Nonprofit Employee Productivity and Satisfaction: Best Practices and Pitfalls
Brad Lebowsky
Brad Lebowsky
01-28-2025 to 01-31-2025 2:00 PM EST.

Nonprofits are at a disadvantage when it comes to attracting and retaining the best talent. Salary levels are often below market, stress and burnout is significant, and there are unavoidable budget constraints employees must learn to deal with. Don’t give up! The success of your organization depends on hiring and retaining the best talent. Over their careers, your employees will go through five separate employment phases: hiring, retention, performance, and separation or retirement. There are best practices associated with each of the 5 phases, and when management implements those, the improvements in employee productivity and satisfaction can be significant. There are, also, pitfalls and risks that occur each step along the employee lifecycle. If you follow the best practices and can avoid the pitfalls, however, your number one asset, your employees, will do the rest for you. Our webinar will cover both the employment-related best practices you should consider adopting and the risks you hopefully can avoid along the way.  Your goal should be to strive to continuously improve the productivity and satisfaction of your employees over their careers, resulting in a highly successful organization that fulfills its mission and serves its community while, at the same time, serving as an example of successful employee management.

What You'll Learn

Our speaker will discuss the following topics during this four-part webinar series:  

Discuss the recruitment and retention tactics used by nonprofit and for-profit industry professionals who have led the way.  
Discover innovative approaches to managing your valuable human resources through each stage of the nonprofit employment life cycle.
Find out which tools are effective and tailored specifically for nonprofits. 
Find out what risks await you at each phase of the lifecycle and how to avoid them  
Gain valuable advice on creating a workplace culture that fosters loyalty, satisfaction, and long-term commitment.  
Exchange ideas, experiences, and solutions with your peer nonprofit leaders and human resource experts during the question-and-answer sessions.  
Find out how to attract candidates who align with your mission and values through recruitment best practices.  
Keep your team motivated, engaged, and committed with best practice retention strategies.  
Gain guidance on how to build a positive and productive work environment through leadership development.  
Learn how to create an inclusive workplace that values and leverages diversity.    
Outline

Below is an outline of the topics which will be covered during each of the 4 sessions comprising this highly informative webinar series.   

Session 1: Hiring   

Understanding Nonprofit Hiring Needs  
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in Hiring  
Effective Interview Techniques  Legal and Ethical Considerations in Hiring  
Hiring Fundraising Professionals  
Remote Work and Hybrid Models  
Passive versus active recruiting 
Follow best practices 
Avoid the risks 
What’s your hiring plan? 
Session 2: Retention  

Introduction to Employee Retention for Nonprofits  
Creating a Positive Organizational Culture  
Professional Development and Career Growth Opportunities  
Implementing recognition and reward programs  
Work-Life Balance and Employee Well-being  
Encouraging employee input and feedback  
Managing Change and Transitions  
Building a Retention-Focused HR Strategy  
Legal and Ethical Considerations in Employee Retention  
Case Studies and Success Stories 
Follow best practices 
Avoid the risks 
What’s your employee retention plan?      
Session 3: Performance

Management    
Understanding Performance Management    
Establishing Clear Goals and Objectives    
Developing Performance Indicators    
Implementing a Performance Management System    
Employee Development and Support    
Handling Performance Issues  
Follow best practices 
Avoid the risks 
What’s your performance management plan?     
Session 4: Separation or Retirement    

Understanding Separation and Termination  
Retirement is the end of a long career   
Preparation for Employee Separation    
Voluntary Separation    
Involuntary Termination    
Communication Strategies    
Post-Termination Procedures   
Case Studies and Best Practices  
Follow best practices 
Avoid the risks 
What’s your separation and/or retirement plan?  
How to Increase Nonprofit Employee Productivity and Satisfaction: Best Practices and Pitfalls
Live Session
Certification
4 Live Sessions

Each 90 Minutes

Monday - Thursday

Q&A; Included

Date Options

Jan 28 - Jan 31 - 2:00 PM EST
$495.00
Qty

1

Add On Demand Recordings to your Live Sessions
+$64
On Demand Recordings only Available Jan 31
$495

Add to cart
Recommended Audience
Who Should Attend?
CEOs/Evecutive directors/Presidents  
Board members   
In-house legal counsel  
Senior and middle management  
CFOs/controllers 
Fundraising/development staff 
Human Resources  
Recruiting  
Payroll  
Employee benefits 
Order Now
Brad Lebowsky
About
Expert Presenter

Brad Lebowsky
MBA in nonprofit management specializing in finance and budgeting
Over 25 years of experience in nonprofit management
Podcast host of the NEA Podcast
Expert in budgeting and finance, grant writing, strategic planning, board training, donor management, employee management, and volunteer retention
More Info